When I decided I [should start blogging](aboutme), I did not think a lot about where my blog should be hosted. Nor the format my posts would be nice to have. I just opened a gedit editor, made myself a warm cup of coffee and started typing my [first welcome post](welcome). I had already played around with WordPress as a student, so it seemed to me like a nice, free place to host my ideas. I created an account, navigated around the GUI for a while, started a post, pasted my text and there it was, my blog was alive!

Later, I discovered Markdown. Writing plain text posts was fine with me, but when it was time to upload a web post on WordPress, headers had to be added, links had to target the correct URLs, text should be highlighted, underlined or formatted as code. Not that bad for small posts, but pretty annoying for a lot of lines! Markdown is a fluent way to write well formated posts from the beginning. The syntax is easy and makes writing a smooth experience, that magically produces a nice result.

This way writing starting to feel even better, something between expressing ideas and coding. But coding is something not only I professionaly do, but also enjoy and try to follow some of the area's *Best Practices*. One such *good practice* is version control. Code should be under version control in order to keep track of your changes, be able to rollback to a previous state and if a remote repository exists, to be able to access your code from different machines. Something that could be applied to blog posts too. Something that should be applied to blog posts too! And I already had a GitHub account, so, I just copied my files to a GitHub project and cloned them to my laptop.

Now, it would be just soooo good to be able to integrate GitHub Markdown posts with WordPress, but I could not find a way such thing could be done. And then I found out about GitHub pages; a project that not only hosts a web page of yours for free, but also provides Jekyll, an engine that can use Markdown text as input and generate static html files. All automatically provided by GitHub.

This is the first post I write in my GitHub's project `_drafts` directory, my blog is migrated to GitHub pages since yesterday, and it still feels like magic!
